Thief 2 FM: Alterna Crystallis (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/AlternaCrystallis.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

This is a typical town/manor FM. There are many secrets but nothing is really 
hidden. There are puzzles but they are not crazy. I would even say they are too 
easy. Into most places you can get by different ways, so in this walkthrough I will 
show only the easiest one and only if it isn't completely obvious. 
But there is one important thing that stands out: details. Pipes near sinks,
disappearing lightspots after the light source is blocked by an obstacle, and 
many other small things that may stay unnoticed but if you notice them, you'll 
inevitably say "Aww..." (or however the exclamation of niceness sounds in your 
language)

This walkthrough is for the Expert difficulty mode.

=== Alterna Crystallis ===

How to get into the Lady X's yard? Shoot an arrow into the target.

Your sword is on the second floor of the "Riverbed Appartments" (it is your home
and the exit point) very near to your starting position.

[SECRET] A small yard, adjacent to the police department, near the Lady X's 
front yard? One of the columns there has a secret switch.

A closed gate near the "Miss Peabody's house"? You can walk around it through the
ajacent house with a balcony or through the attic of that house. Or, when you get 
to the attic, turn around and look at the slightly ajar window — you can jump 
there and reach the gate lever through the window. (the attic is accesible through
the window looking on the street with that gate)

A secret lever at the side of the table in the "City Warehouse" opens
a passage to another city district.

[SECRET] If you'll open the hude gate at the Warehouse, you could get to the 
attic where you'll find a key to the Warehouse safe.

You can get to the police department through the sewers: turn left after you
jump over the pile of barrels and then crawl into the hole in the wall.

[SECRET] A secret ring on the wall between cells 1 and 2 in the police department
undeground prison.

An important key is near the stocks in the torture room in the polie department.

There are 2 "Lt.Mosley" offices now. Take a "Police Interior key" there. And a 
very important "order list" scroll is in the chest. This list is a sheriff's
office code clue. Take a "storage key". It is from a supply cabinet in the police
workshop. Take a "Replacement valve" from that cabinet.

[SECRET] The locker room has a secret switch on the top of the locker.

[SECRET] A servant room with a letter about a wooden toilet has a secret switch 
to operate that toilet: it is behind the dresser near the bunk-bed.

The code for the sheriff's office is in the scroll you got in the the Mosley's 
office: 0721 (first digit is a position)

Read the diary on the sheriff's table to close the "Truart" objective.

[SECRET] One of the statues above the main entrance to the Bafford's building
has a secret button.

The key to the "Baffors Guard Entrance" is inside, in the guard quarters, near
that door, second floor, on the shelf.

[SECRET] Kimberly-Stacy room has a secret ring hidden in the ceiling beam above
the bed.

Bafford's backyard has a generator, powering the safe defence system. Turn it off.
[SECRET] Also, there is a secret button behind that generator.

[SECRET] A "secret" lever in the freight lift/stairwell zone of the Bafford's 
office will open the passage to the library. You can also open this passage from
the library: search for a book-lever on the top shelf of the bookshelf on your 
right.

The access to the Bafford's safe is granted by a penholder/glass thing on his
table. The "Golden Muse" is in there.

[SECRET] Near the "Old Hydro Plant Station" there is a cozy sleeping place in the
corner with some electric machinery, improvised bed and a hand mirror on the floor.
There is a secret switch there that opens a door above that place.

[SECRET] A tiny broom closet in the flat with a "How to live among thieves" book
has a secret switch near the ceiling.

[SECRET] A street with a fish-shaped shop sign and some ghost-like sounds? Search
for a switch in the arch with 2 torches.Try to run over the pile of bones to get
a bonus objective.

The "Jewelry display key" is in the bar: on a woman's belt.

The "Tower key" is in the Periwinkle's lab above the bar.

The "Lost coins" are on the 2nd floor flat overlooking the warehouse/teleport-
only-shop. There is also a drunken guy on the balcony. (Don't miss a necklace
under the bed in that flat). [SECRET] Use those coins on a plate near the
Hammerite statue in front of the "West Riverbed Gate Station"

[SECRETx4] A secret torch right in front of the "Helena way" sign. Don't miss the
window above this torch. In that flat there is a secret stash of coins under the
stairs and a secret switch on the bookshelf. This building also has a window 
overlooking the canal (the light behind it periodically switches off and on again).
This is a secret, just walk through that window.

[SECRET] Near the "Helena Way" sign there is a secret purse behind a wood post.

[SECRETx2] See a yard with a 2-storey balcony near the "Helena way" sign? There
is a secret lever under the balcony (near the dairy shop) and a secret chest 
under the balcony stairs.

[SECRET] A coin purse, acessible through the slightly ajar door on the balcony
overlooking the canal. Near the wooden bridge to a USA's traditional barber 
sign.

[SECRET] On the balcony above the barber shop there is a red bag of spice. (Use
a vine arrow on the roof)

[SECRET] A secret chest near the bell tower, search near the manhole to the 
North gate.

A bonus serpentile torc is accesible through the slightly ajar window in 
the lady X's house. This window is right below roof and overlooks the balcony 
near the North Gate.

Now ascend the tower, jump into the chimney and that'll lead you to the big
Periwinkle's laboratory. Use the "replacement valve" to fix the machinery and 
start it. Don't forget to "boost" it with a new working valve. Now get all the
crystals (bar lab included) and you can go home.

