Thief 2 FM(campaign): Death's Cold Embrace (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/DeathsColdEmbrace.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

The events of this campaign mostly take place in 2 areas, so you'll have a
chance to see changes in the familiar places during the time flow. And you 
really should do that. Not because of huge loot piles or crates with gas
arrows. But because of... You'll see why by yourself. I strongly recommend not
running through the missions by the shortest path.

The story isn't just a placeholder and has some "literature value". So read texts,
they are nice. No excessive verbiage too.

This walkthrough is done for the top difficulty except for the last mission
where I suggest playing on "Normal": you won't miss anything story-wise but 
save much nerves from ghosting.

=== MURDER MOST FOUL ===

There is a secret in the guard tower with generator machinery -- a switch at the
one of the bunk beds opens a manhole in the ceiling.

The key to the inventor's apartment is in the safe in the guard tower near the
hammerite chapel.

Apt.1 (Davidov. Being robbed): take "an old ornate key" behind the flower pot in
the Davidov's office (closed room)

Apt.2 (Clara): Woman with a sword has another "old ornate key". There is a secret
book-switch in the bookshelf on the lower floor.

Apt.3 (Inventor): find a switch to power on a lift, descend to the basement
(cyborg isn't very annoying and in case of problems can be temporarily disabled
with a water arrow), search for a dinner room and turn on the battery there. 
Miller's corpse will drop the key which you can use to open the safe (here, in 
the basement too). You can disable the metal child near the safe by shooting a
water arrow to damaged sparkling wire near the floor.

See a "zombie" with a lantern on the second floor of Greenwood Aprtments? Climb
there and find a chest with 2 locks. Use "ornate" keys to open them.

Candle shop has a vent shaft (look high) leading to the Trickster's Tail Pub.
You can use it to meet lord Fairbanks unnoticed. Don't miss a ring under the lift.
A key to the safe is on the top shelf of the bookshelf.

Jeweler? Small switch under the front desk (don't confuse it with standard alarm
button!) will give you a "small key". The book-switch will open the hatch to the
attic. Take a "heavy key" there. "Small" key is for a safe, "heavy" one will open
showcases on the first floor.

Painter? A key to the chest is on the foorframe to the bathroom. "A small gold
key." Also take a "Metal key" from the chimney mantel. It opens a cellar (the
entrance is outside, right below the main door). Nothing interesting in the cellar
though: a coin under the stairs and a portrait of some ominously looking guy (not
Karras, other ominously looking guy).

Linda's Luxury Apparel? You can get in through the windows on the third floor, 
they are accessible through the bakery roof. Thre are bookshelves and statues
between floors inside, lower bookshelf has a secret switch (the secret itself
is on the first floor)

=== A FORMULA FOR SUCCESS ===

See a windows in the outer fence? They lead to small guarposts and one of those
windows is openable. Or you can simply lure out a guard -- he has keys to outer
gates.

There is a ventialtion shaft near the fridge which let you get in quetly if you 
wish (you'll miss some fun in this case)

Top floor: there is a secret switch in a form of wooden tile between chimney and
the left bookcase.

A "small metal key" is in the lord Highwater's bedroom (toilet). A tiny switch
at the left side of his bed. Use that "tiny key" to open the safe to get an
"Office key".

Robert's room has "An old key" (for the crypt) and a small secret behind the 
wooden wall decorative tile near the head of the bed: some love letters are inside.

The stool from Philip's bedroom is needed in the library.

Look below the desk at the master's office: there is a switch which opens access
to the safe.

Put a heavy stools on a dark stone tiles in the library. That'll open a small 
secret room with a safe containing "Incriminating evidence"

Captain's office? You can take a key from the captain himself -- he is patrolling
the house but often wandering into the kitchen. The right bookshelf has a book-
switch that'll open the access to the safe with "Safe Combination" scroll. It is
for the safe in Highwater's office. Formula is in that safe.

Crypt and inner doors there are openable with "An Old Key". The sword is in the
last chamber. At the very entrance to the crypt there is a hole in the floor
behind the fence. You can see a chest down there. The fence can be opened with
a switch hidden behind the flag in that room.

=== RENDEZVOUS AT THE HARLEQUIN ===

How to get into the Inn? There is a lightswitch at the left side of the door and
you should have a few water arrows. But guards can be easily lured out and knocked
out.

There is a large sum of money in the guard post near the chapel. And a purse in
an aprtment near that fake-zombie from previous mission (the guy with a drill).

Nothing else interesting in this mission.

=== SEEKING COUNCEL WITH SHADOWS ===

"A replacement button" is in the tool locker in the cistern shed in the backyard
of the generator guard tower. Use that button to fix a dumbwaiter in the 
Fairbanks' cellar. There is a different and less convenient way to get in: you
can descend the dumbwaiter to the cellar without fixing the button. You can shoot
an arrow through the window on the second floor (accessible through second floor
of the generator guard tower).

Library key is on the belt of a guard on the second floor of the Fairbank's manor.

Look for a secret behind the cupboard in the 2nd floor apartment in the Greenwood
Apartments (the guy with a drill from previous missions)

There is a library in the top floor of the hammerite chapel. "The Book of Shadows"
can be found above the left bookshelf near the Restricted Library door.

Bring "The Book of Shadows" to Fairbanks. He is in a secret cellar openable with
a book-switch in the library (small shelf with a ladder)

Take "Rosary Beads" from the second floor of the Thaddeus' apertment.

Keystones info can be found in a book on a bookshelf at Thaddeus' apertment.

There is a secret in the hammerite chapel: a small hammer lying on a huge statue-
tier hammer.

One more secret in the chapel: in the undergraund barracks find a tiny switch on
a ceiling beam above the the bunk bed with a "navigator compass" in the footlocker.

There is a secret purse under the roof (on the beams) of Fairbanks' library.

=== COLD RECEPTION ===

Robert is in his room on the top floor, so go there and then escort him to the
crypt where you will e able to talk.

The combination to the safe in Highwater's office is on the table.

=== WAKING THE DEAD ===

The shovel is outside, near a one-story house; gravekeeper's presumably. 
Not hidden.

The office with a letter about a secret room with a "battery of armaments"
obviously has an important secret. Switch is under the table.

Remember a few chests behind the closed gates in the cellar? Those gates can be
opened with a "key" which is on someone's belt. Be careful: there are 2 just 
"key" keys in this mission.

Before digging up  the grave be sure to have anti-undead weaponry.

Edwin's body is in the secret in the library in the Thaddeus' office. Usa a
book-switch on a shelf opposite the entrance door. Put the corpse in the Julia's
grave and return to the exit area.

See 4 huge statues standing back-to-back? There is a "spice" bag hidden between
them. Near their heads. You can jump there from a small balcony. That is a secret.

A balcony withcobwebs? Near the big room with hammer-themed stained glass windows
with reading desks. This room also has an outside door looking straight on the
Julia's grave. So, how to get to the balcony? Rope arrow should suffice.

There is a secret switch in the bookcase in the Thaddeus' office.

White stone is near the Thaddeus' office, at the base of the statues overlooking
the library. Just lean over the handrail to pick it up.

A secret red stone is on a beam in the corridor leading to entrance of the tower
with Thaddeus' office.

A secret blue stone is in the main hall of the church (with pews) at the feet of
on of those statues in the columns.

A secret green stone is in the library, at the base of the statue looking on the
bench with "The Builder's Chariot" book.

=== THE RITUAL ===

A key to the Restricted Library is in the chapel. In a room of sleeping high-ranked
priest (librarian). The "spirit keystone" is in there on a top of the arch-type
structure inside.

I have managed to blackjack Jill Black but there is no lootable loot on her 
(she has a purse in her hand and a decorative dagger on a belt but those are not 
active). So don't spend your time on that.

In a "Quill" district, open the metal door near the bonfire. This building isn't 
that empty as it may seem. Step near the wall under the stairs. See? A glyph.
Move forward through the wall. Move-move-move until you get the "death keystone"
in a mice-infested crypt. On your way back, take a piece of paper from cyborg's
mouth(Miller-inventor wrote about it in the first mission).
Keeper's area has one more -- "Life" -- keystone. Push a button behind the woman
statue and then push the man statue and the door near woman statue will open.

And there is secret in the Keepers' area too: a button on the left side of the
brick "table" under the bookshelves. There is a lantern on that table. NOT in
a corridor with a man statue, in a parallel corridor. Just some tools there.

Now to the mechanist building. See a cornoce above the are with bonfire? Use it
to get to the windows but don't go to the nearest -- first go to the farthest.
(Cavador's office). Get Vilnia's key there. A "Metal key" is on the belt of the 
guy from the library. That is a key for the exit.
The blocked area in the Vilnia's office is openable by a switch under her table.
Take a "freezer key" and into the freezer (in the warehouses) for the last --
Flesh -- keystone.

The easiest way to get into the "Quill" shop is to lure the guard outside -- he 
has a key. Or you can try to find some movable crates and picklock the window 
above the shed with keepers entrance. All 3 paper pieces are in the shop. One is
under the stairs (with a small key), one os on the bookshelf, and one is on the 
cupboard on the second floor. That cupboard is openable with a cmall key. Nothing
difficult.

Death-North | Life-South | Spirit-West | Flesh-East

Hemp | Oak | Dragon

Well, before you proceed, don't forget to take your payment: Richard's gem
collection is on the second floor. In the bedroom.

=== THE WAILING KEEP (Difficulty: Normal) ===

After entering the castle throufh the main gate, turn left and search the ruins
of the small buildings in the castle yard: there you'll find Clara who will give
you a wand to fire up 4 braziers. Well, fire them up -- that'll open the 
portcullis to the inner part of the castle.

Descend into the cellar (where Mathien is charging himself with coloured rays)
and take "An old Bronze key" from the skeleton's hands. Use it to open a metal 
door upstairs. Rope arrow to ascend in the room/tower with a broken beam. Turn
switch above the table to move the bookcase. You should find yourself in a room
with a round hole for the lift. Go upstairs through that hole and find a scroll 
in Drymian language. Bring it to Clara and get "Dispel Magic Scroll" from her.
Now go and disable 4 "coloured ray antennas" with that scroll (just use it
somewhere nearby)

How to open again doors to "sunken cathedral"? remember a ghost blocking a stair-
way and 2 levers in nearby rooms? There is a ghostperiodically pushing one of
these levers so just push another when the time is correct.

In a "cathedral" lookbelow the stairs: metal plates are opened now and the 
levers are accessible. Push them and go to the opened passthrough at the place
where Mathien laid during your first visit of the cathedral. Read dispel magic
scroll near the yellow pool.
