Thief 2 FM (camapign): Keeper of Infinity 2 version 1.6(Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/KeeperOfInfinity.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

VERY IMPORTANT: This campaign haven't finished yet. But it is already big enough
to provide ~5 hours of gameplay.

Very difficult (things are hidden, activities are not always obvious, enemies are 
plenty and dangerous) missions that can boast a very nice look. Because of latter 
this campaign isn't for a very old potato-tier machines. 
Many things in these missions are rather unique. Author obviously is a master of
dromEd and uses that.
Unexpectedly much rope-arrow-play.
Also be prepared that sometimes you will be forced to stay in some
room until you do something important. So if you have stumbled upon invisible 
wall that isn't a bug.
And talk to NPCs until you sure that their replicas are cycled.  Their speeches 
can be rather long.

=== BAD VENTURE ===

Move along the fence (at the right hand from your starting point) and you'll be
able to cross the moat-chasm by a wooden plank. Also you can dive a little and
find a thief hideout ith some loot and a vague tip about city infiltration.

Get on the wooden horizontal flagpole on the gatehouse with a help of the rope
arrow and then climb the flag (yes, it is climable) upstairs.

There is a crowbar behind the bunk bed at the top floor of the guardhouse.

Take a "spare arrow" (I haven't figured out how they are usable but there are 
few of them in this mission) in a small closet-like room with a shooting target.
That shelf under the target is movable so move it and use crowbar on the planks 
on the floor.

Eventually you'll find yourself at the gate again but from inner side of the town 
this time. Exit is behind the wooden door near the gate and the key is on the table
near the snoozing unknockable guard. Don't douse that torch too. Just be quiet.

Police station near the lazy fruit seller? You can get in through the ventilation 
shaft (rear side of the building). Use your crowbar. Take a "Blocked district key"
there.

See a tower with a guard at front door? There is a ventilation shaft behind that
tower. Use crowbar. Now you are in the wine cellar. You can lure that archer
(standing in the room with a safe) to the dark area by jumping a bit near the 
grate. In front of the archer there is a small room (with a 3-tier lock) with
some loot and a "grate key". Watcher? You can turn it off with a switch in that 
room. Near the door. The safe itself is easy to crack. So do it and get out the
same way you came in.

There is a pickaxe in front of the "Wine warehouse" main entrance. Ignore the 
guard and he will ignore you.

See a suspicious bush on the wall behind the house with tree-beast-like tree? Try
to clear the passage with a sword. Magic involved.

Now return to the crack in the ground near the police station. You can descend 
in there by that huge vegetation. Dont hesitate to kill those rat-men or whatever
they are. Take a "Farage's staff" in a cave with wandering mage. You can descend 
even deeper and get some more silver with your pickaxe.

Now use "Farage's staff" on that suspicious vegetation behind the house with 
tree-beast-like tree and then use "Blocked district key" to open revealed metal
door.

Jonas is in the sellar of the Inn. Use a glyph in a small room near the hole
in the wall, covered with a magic field. To get out use a book-switch on the shelf
opposite the fireplace.

Take an "empty jar" from the kitchen in the inn.

A ladder to the attic of the building near the shining "House of science"? There
is some loot and another "spare arrow" in that attic.

See a small spheric cloud above the south entrance of the "House of science"?
Climb there to see what it is. Report then to Jonas and receive a crystal from him.

A house in front of the "House of science" isn't as empty as it may look: check
the bed and a hog head for loot. And bookshelf too (all other loot is obvious 
enough)

Now use the crystal on the cloud and bring it to Jonas.

Clean&Cozy Inn is opened now. Take a key from the flower pot on the second floor. 
Also there is a green spider in the basement. Put it in the "empty jar"

See a gape in the cornice at the "Stumbled" inn? You can place a rope arrow on
the roof beam. That'll grant you access to the windows.

Cannot get out from an inn room with flying stones? There is a book in the central 
stone — look from below. There is also a secret in the room: a switch behind the
right side of the bookshelf.

Go to Jonas again again ans search the room while he isn't there. Secret switch
is in the wall of the right (if you're looking at the fireplace) niche with a
statue. Very hard to see.

The second Jonas hideout is in the sewers near the police station. Right in front
of the unknockable guard. Lure him away and open the hatch with a crowbar. Take
the "Attic key" from Jonas.

Under the wooden stairs of the entrance to "Stumbled" inn there is a secret.

See a wall of crates near the chasm on the inn street? Climb over it and search 
for a secret: lower crate is openable.

"Attic key" opens a door on the second floor of the "Stumbled" inn. Read a diary 
there.

Go to Jonas' corpse again. Now the pass behind the "House of science" is open
(it was blocked with magic barrier earlier). You can use that closed shut shed
to climb on the stone wall. But to get into the shed you need to remove some
wooden wall planks while hanging on the rope arrow (aim for the roof slightly
to the left from the shed door). Pay attention on that astronomic chart above 
the door. Loot is hidden behind it.

The key you're feeking for is further on these corridors in a glass showcase.
Break the glass and get out.

Return to the "Stumbled" inn. Room №2 is opened now. Mr.Cleman waits for his
spider delivery. So deliver. Just throw the jar on the bed.

=== RAVEN'S NEST ===

Wander around and then go to the secret from previous mission under the entrance
stairs of the inn. Tear off those planks there with your bare hands.

Wait near the guards group near the fog until their conversation is over — you'll
receive a new objective.

Go to the back side of the inn and take a look on a metal fence.

The house — nearest to the chasm in front of the inn — has an openable window
through which you can get a key to that house. Take a stool there.

Now put the stool on the fence behind the inn.

Talk to that shady guy near the pawn shop entrance. Yes, talk, not blackjack.

The office you need is in the inn now. The bag is on the bar table, near the 
unknockable guard.

Bring that bag to the shady guy (you need him no more, so...) and he'll let you
in. Talk to the owner.

Go to the house nearest to the chasm and get into the attic (it is openable now).
Once in a house, pay attention on the deer head. It has some secret loot. Not so
secret anymore, huh?

Look out of the window, use a rope arrow on the beam on the top of tht stone wall,
jump on the rope and look on the metal bar in the window in that wall.

Return to the Flick and buy a hacksaw from him for a cash purse (use it on the saw).
You should have some in your inventory.

Move through the house opposite the police station and then pay attention on the 
house looking over the chasm (where you have found the staff in a previous 
mission). It has openable window. Barrel, window shutters, window. Easy.

In this house there is a secret stash of money beneath the stairs. Now open the
window on the second floor and move over the rope to Penny's Inn. Read a note
near the "not looking good" mage. The dagger is behind the ceiling tile in Penny's
room. Above the bed.

Don't forget to pay visit to lady Adaline.

Bring the Penny's dagger to pawn shop owner. Buy what you like and continue to 
talk to Flik until you get a list and a "gate control room key"

Return to the second floor of the "Stumbled" inn and you will be met bu mage and 
his guards. Talk to him.

Now you can go to the fog area and open that metal door with a "gate control room 
key". That'll bring you to the rich district.

Captain's apartments? Dagger. Search for a switch behind the wall tile near the
chimney (the same wall where the dagger is)

Library? Take a "key" from behind the bed. There is a grate under the very ceiling 
in the main hall. It is in the sadow so very hard to see. Try crowbar and then 
return to Flik and buy and acid from Manu. Use acid on that grate. Descend 
carefully and use a key from behind of the librarian bed in that glass hemisphere.
Take a book. Seriously, don't be afraid. Grab it!

Helping lady Adaline will bring you to the inn. Look for the 37th room there. The
mask is in the cobwebs above the cupboard.

See two oval portaraits above the desk with locked box at lady Adaline's house?
The key is behind the left portrait.

Try to picklock the entrance door at the big building on the fountain square.

You are in the room with a frogbeast in a aquarium? Turn the head of the "worm".
It is a secert. Frogbeast is pickable. I suupose there is a nother secret behind 
the painting but I haven't found the way to open it.

See a potted plant above the "Velandra's elegant shoes"? Look inside. That is a 
secret.

A secret purse under the bed in ANOTHER gate control room. The gate is the same
but the room is another.

That angry thing is the sewers (zombie district) is most likely unkillable so
just evade it. Run to the place where you did found Jonas' body.

Don't try to get all 4 things for Flik. 3 (without statue) should be enough. Flik
will show you a way to the forest.


