Thief 2 FM: Loser (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/Loser.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

Nice, not very big mission with many different things to do and some nonstandard 
objects. Some forced ghosting, some pitch-black places, a few robots, and even 
a horde of treebeasts and sharks. But everything in good dosage, nothing is too much.
But walkthrough is still may be useful. So here it is.

=== LOSER ===

Wait until a huge boulder will fall through the ceiling. Use that boulder to make
a hole in the floor: search for a slightly darker tile.

Wait until the mechanist descend to the ground with treebeasts, go up by the 
stairs and turn on the light (the switch with a scroll about turning off the light)

Walk above the cells until you see a 4711 code.

The key to the exit gate from the cell area is on the top of the cell as the
guard's diary says. Seek on the cell that is nearest to the switch that operates 
the metal door.

Don't miss a "Keycard - Prison" near the sleeping guard.

Take a "Guardroom" key from the belt of the patrolling guard.

On the top floor of the cellblock, in the guardroom, you can enter the code you
have found on the cell top, that'll open the lift door.

How te get out from the prison yard (the one with ping-pong tables)? Throw a 
stone into the grated window near the exit -- this will allow you to reach the
lever on the other side of the wall.

The pan -- blackjack substitute -- can be found in the kitchen of the pub.

There is a "Blue gem" in a secret under the pub owner's table (room on the 
second floor).

You can find the compass and a slow-fall potion in the attic of the pub.

The lockpick and a "blacksmith" key are on the second floor of the barracks (white
brick building with many windows, red flag near the entrance; near the small toilet 
shed covered with the Hammerite flag). Now you can get "Keycard-Workshop" from
the small box under the bed on the first floor of the same building.

"Moneybox" key is in the training facility (range section)

The mace -- sword substitute -- can be found at the blacksmith.

"Keycard-Tower" is in the checkpoint at the main gate. The card is in the box
openable with the "moneybox" key.

There is a secret tunnel to the outer side of the wall in the kitchen of the pub.
See a "smoke on the water" right in front of the exit of that tunnel? Swim there --
a fun secret it is(and a slice of pizza). Some diving will be needed.

Jump in the toilet (the one which was covered with the hammarite flag) -- this 
is the way to the officer's quarters. That office has a "Head of the guard" card. 
And a crowbar (near the lift -- it is easy to miss)

See a ventilation shaft (near the outer wall)? You can open it with a crowbar. 
That'll bring you to the laboratory where the scrambler is (near the singing bot,
there is a switch to turn off the light near the shelf)

The gate in the fence around the tree tower can be opened with a crowbar.

How to kill the Trumpet? Just drop a scrambler somewhere near him and hit him
with something -- bots will do the rest. Don't forget to take a yellow gem from
his dead body!

Deactivate robots? Near the piano, at the top level of the tower, there is a flag.
Move through it. Climb to the roof, then on the antenna, and search for a fuse.
Remove it.

The lift of the tower can move to the underground -- search for a small button 
near the doorframe while standing on the ground level and looking towards the exit.
This will lead you to the laboratory where you did found the scrambler.

Time to visit a hermit. Return to the cellblock, lockpick the emergency door
opened (in the guardpost) and release the prisoners. Find hermit's cell on the
middle floor and read his diary.

The red gem can be found in the "shark area" underwater near the lighthouse.

See a well behind the electrified fence? That generator doesn't like the heat.
There are some fire arrows in the hearth of the blacksmith. The fence is climbable.

Don't miss a ring in the spider cave!

Move-move-move. Have fallen somewhere in a dark corridor? Mace can break the wood.
Use color gems on the obvious place. Teleport. Lake. Climb huge vines. Climb 
narrow cliffs. Climb rope (preinstalled, not yours). Take a drop of resin  and 
receive 20 "Life arrows". Ok, teleport yourself outside.

Use life arrows on the hermit and on treebeasts (the is a pile of them burning 
near the shore)

Innkeeper? That is a woman in the green dress from the pub.
