Thief 2 FM: Nameless (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.2
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/Nameless.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

The author claims that this is his first mission but you shouldn't expect another
"3 absolutely identical rooms with some loot and a few unmarked keys" mission.
Actually this is rather big and diverse mission. Nothing too fancy but still the
quality level is unexpected for the first try.
Texts are useful. Read them.

=== NAMELESS ===

"The small gate key" is in the stone building marked as "House" on the map. It 
opens the small gate blocking the way to the Barry's house.

"The game room key" is in the 2 bed bedroom near the kitchen (where the dewdrop 
is). Go to that gameroom and take a "George's key" from the noble's belt.

Pay close attention on the bookshelf in the Victor's room. The one that is 
furthest from the bed. It contains the scroll with a simple riddle for the safe 
code. 2185. That safe (George's room) contains the mask.

In the big bar with a stage (not gaming room, another bar) there is a secret 
switch on the beams holding electric lanterns. It opens the hatch on the stage.

There is a dead body with "Supply room key" underwater in the docks.

The entrance to the caves is accessible from the water in docks.

The "Treasure room key" is in the caves. On the ground near the huge spider.

Closed gate in the caves? Shoot an arrow to the button.

The "Basement key" is on the patrolling guard's belt (in the caves) and another key 
has a Phillip in the chapel.

Explosive charge is in the supply room.

Give the mask to Barry (using Barry himself, not those mask holders) and he'll 
give you a fire arrow.

Now go and blow up the exit gate.

Angry Barry? Just throw a flashbomb, climb a stone near him and hit him with a
sword until the mask will fall off. Pick it up and throw into the lava.
