Thief 2 FM: Nest Of Vipers (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/NestOfVipers.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

Medium-sized cathedral-themed mission. Nothing is hidden in a hard way. The loot objective is trivial.
Candles reignite themselves automatically. Torches do not.
Humanoid enemies aren't difficult, but golems can be a problem. Golems are afraid of sword and flashbombs.

This walkthrough is for the Expert difficulty mode.

=== Nest Of Vipers ===

Of course Halyard won't be able to help you because of being dead. That happens to Garrett's companions a lot.

A wooden platform will allow you to ascend the wall above the gates. Push a lever there to open the gate.

[Book info] In barracks, near the sleeping soldiers, there is an important book about the Bell of Silence that has something to do with the magical barrier on the bridge to the Astronomy Tower.

Bell of Silence can be accessed through the roof. Use it to dispel the magic barrier on the bridge.

Take a "Keep key" in Ludbold's office in the Astronomy tower and read his diary.

At Ludbold's bedroom pay attention to the "Altar-like thing with some on-ceiling device". At the top of the Astronomy Tower rotate the telescope until you see a Moon in the viewfinder. Now you can take the "Chaos Chard" from the Ludbold's bedroom.

Don't forget to turn on the teleport with a lever near the telescope.

Mehrgarh Stele is in the garden on the top floor (indoor) of the Keep. Use the "Chaos Chard" on it.

Try to take your payment from the secret room in the bath changing room (use the right clothing hook to get in). Be careful about the trap. Get a new objective. Kethmar will appear shortly after you get the payment and he has a key to his room.

Push a lever under the bedside table in Kethmar's room. Push another lever behind the painting and take the "Incriminating document".

Put "Incriminating document" on Valthazar's desk (the one with his name on it)

Crypt exit to the cliff can be opened with the "Keep key".

=== COLLECTION ===

1. Lunarc Wand is in the classroom in the Astronomy tower. Above the door.

2. Mystforge Wand. Astronomy Tower. A room with a teleporting rat. Above the door.

3. Slinghord Wand. Keep. Not hidden. In a room above the round room with portraits and blue crystals.

4. Frostgem Wand. Keep. Not hidden. The round room with portraits and blue crystals. Near the Volthazar's office.

5. Twistpine Wand. Keep. Not hidden. First floor.

6. Fire Opal Wand. Keep. Not hidden. First floor. Near the room with many differently colored chemicals on dishes.

7. Triclaw Emerals Wand. Herbalist's room near the baths.

8. Aethermist Wand. Astronomy Tower. The shelf is on the same floor as the teleporter to the Keep.

=== SECRETS === 

1. A coin purse on the rafts above the table where Yurrick studies cadaver of the construct/golem

2. Obvious openable panel in a small library room (the one with a ladder to the upper floor). Hang over the balcony near that panel to see a switch.

3. Coin stash on the rafts in the Astronomy Tower (classroom floor)

4. Crypt. A part with a round "table" in the middle. This table has a hidden switch.

5. The middle buttress (those are accessible through the roof near the Bell of Silence) has a hidden coin purse behind the statue.











