Thief 2 FM: Rust Belt Prison (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.2
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/RustBeltPrison.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

Prison escape mission. Not easy one, but without too much "hardcore" stuff. 
Ghosting is forced for a very limited time (and not mandatory, you can just run),
sword is available not far from the beginning but the blackjack you'll get nearer 
to the middle. The map isn't very realistic but rather easy to navigate. Some 
bugs are still there. Not gamebreaking but still serious: I wasn't able to 
formally close all the optional objectives while done them de facto. But those 
bugs don't spoil the mood.

This walkthrough is written for the Expert difficulty of 1.5 version of FM.

=== RUST BELT PRISON ===

Take water arrows from a drainage and shoot the vegetation with it -- it'll grow
enough to be used as a ladder.

I haven't found the way to ascend the stair well quetly. So just run until you
see a metal door, leading to torture chambers and inciniration room. You'll have 
a chance to hide there in the shadows.

Now move to the incineration room and take a compass (not important for this mission)
from a chest and a "laboratory key" from a guard's belt.

At the top of the stairwell you'll see a guard. Just run in the door right in
front of you and continue to run forward until you see a sword.

The "Maintenance room key" is under the stairs on the lowest level of the
"Incineration Stage"

The "servant's key" is on the belt of the cook. In the kitchen.

The "garbage chute key" is in the servants area. In a kitchen-like room (with 2
stoves) on the table in the very corner (farthest from the sink). Really hard
to see.

Jump into the garbage chute. At the beginning of the "stream" you'll find a chest
with 3 fire arrows. Shoot one to the explosive barrel to clear the way to the 
next area.

There are two ways to ascend from the sewers: one is blocked with a broken gate
and the other leads to the outside. Pay attention on the turnable torch at the
shady side of the sewers exit.

There is a scroll near the garbage bins at the "Prisoner intake/Back door". Read
it. This will add a new optional objective.

Lockpicks and blackjack are in the armory. It isn't even locked.

Read the journal in the Laboratory to tick off the objective about why the
invalids are being incinerated.

In the mechanist office don't leave behind some jewelry above the entrance.

Pay attention on the turnable torch on the back side of the target at the
shooting range.

Guard post on the stairs near the offices (in front of the lift)? Another turnable 
torch. Now you have turned all 3 of them so the path to atrium is opened.

Court room? There is a lightswitch near the entrance. Don't forget the judge's key
from his belt. Now pull him to the torture room.

The door to the sisters (judge's office) is between Lounge and Barracks. It isn't
hidden in any way but somehow is very easy to miss.

Killing request? I just lured them out and blackjacked them -- there is more than
enough shade around for that. I have never tried but there is a "dispatch cops"
switch in the judge's office. It may lure the policemen out. Or not. I don't know.

There is a secret button under one of the desks in the "Interrogation" room. The
prize is under the clock.

There is also a hidden objective for which you should kill all the invalids: one
in the laboratory and other is Jack Oh Dear who is in the cell at the 4th level.

Now go to the atrium, climb that stone structure with a help of a huge vegetation
and then jump on the ladder. You may ignore watchers -- those cannons aren't 
dangerous much at this distance.


