Thief 2 FM: Tell Tale Heart v1.2 (Text walkthrough)

Version: 0.0.1
Up-to-date version: https://github.com/ANGulchenko/walkthroughs/blob/main/TellTaleHeart.txt
License: GPLv3

While writing this walkthrough I assume that the reader is rather intelligent
person who also likes this game and is able to read readables, loot lootables
and explore explorable by himself without my stimulating.

=== INFO FROM THE AUTHOR OF THIS WALKTHROUGH ===

It is a rather big and heavy mission, full of non-standard scripts and objects. Be 
patient: listen to what they tell you (no matter how inconvenient is to understand
the outerworld whinings in a foreign language without subtitles), read what they 
write to you (unimportant texts are marked in an obvious way), write down things
if you need. Do not rush.
Oh, one more thing: prepare yourself for a huge amount of angry undead.

=== Tell Tale Heart ===
Take a crowbar from the wooden shack on the left side of the abandoned building.

There is a Jenivere's handkerchief lying in front of the front door (I wasn't able
to find any use to it)

See a hatch in the ceiling near the backdoor? I didn't manage to find a switch
for it but it is openable with a sword.

See a heater in the abandoned house? There is a switch on the chimney. Press it
to move the bed aside and free path to the hatch in the floor. Crawl there and
take the "house key" and the "Mortuary gate key".

Visit dr.Morris in the laboratory. Kill him and put his corpse on the table. Take
the "Time Machine Portal" key from that table.

Take "poison" from the laboratory. Use it on the "steak" in the morgue. Take
the "poisoned steak."

Take dr.Morris' body to the downstairs (careful: first clean out the place from
the enemies) and separate his head with a guillotine.

Put dr.Morris' head on the operational table in the laboratory and take the 
printout. "2014" is the code.

"Torture Chamber Key" is in the room with a guillotine. On a skeleton. The 
"Dungeon key" is on the table near the Basso and Jen cell.

See a crazy giant near the Basso and Jen cell? Put the "poisoned steak" on his 
plate.

Take a "Hand of Evil Eye" (didn't find any usage) and the "cell door" key from
the giant's table.

Take Basso and Jen and move them outside through the long elevator going to the 
very beginning of the mission. Put them on the cart as the objective says.

The "silver fuse" is in the dr.Morris' office. And a hatch to the "time machine".
Use the "Time machine portal" key to open it. The code for the machine is "2014". You
can get it from the printout from the laboratory.

Dr.Frankenstein's diary is in the living room (modern times) on the top of the
bookshelf.

Dr.Frankenstein's ring is in the bathroom (modern times): turn a valve between
the toilet and bathtub.

The "Mausoleum key" can be found in the "Water and Power Station". Underwater.
On a skeleton (not very easy to see)

The "Precursor mask" (didn't find any usage) is in the mausoleum.

The list of the secrets is under the statue overlooking the Mausoleum. That 
statue is movable with a button on the back of one of the nearby gargoyles.

There is an important lever on the southern side of the top row of the Mausoleum.
It opens a small room on the lowest row where you'll find a switch that opens 
a sarcophagus in the middle of the Mausoleum. Descend there, push the metal plate
and use the Frankenstein's ring on the skeleton's arm.

Use the scalpel to get the heart.

Now return to the laboratory. Change the fuse. Put the heart on the glass box and
then put mrs.Morris on the table.

Now you can leave through the way you came (the easiest way is through the 
elevator in the Torture Chamber)

